The Joe Rogan experience. What you are, the Lance Armstrong of skating.
And th this is what I mean, I don't mean that you got caught doing drugs.
What I mean is that you're the guy like when people talk about professional
skaters, Tony Hawk, like, I don't know,
a single bike rider other than Lance Armstrong. I mean, Greg,
there was another guy Greg Lamond. Yeah. See,
but I can't remember him real quick, but for you it's,
that's gotta be strange because like you were the first and you are for sure.
The most prominent, like, how did you pull that off?
Uh, I th well,
mostly longevity by surviving the first wave of skating in
the eighties.
It was actually kind of the second wave of skating in the eighties where I had a
pretty good career. Um, I was doing really well in competition,
especially in the, in the mid to late eighties.
And then as skating kind of went underground,
I never quit and started my own skate company in 1992.
And then when the X games came into play,
I was still kind of on top of my game. I did really well there.
And I think a lot of people carried over my name from that,
that first round where they were skaters in the eighties and now maybe their
kids skate. And they're like, oh, I remember that guy. You know, and,
and their kids are watching me on the X games.
And then when our video game came out in 1999, that's when everything changed.
Well, you were famous for skating when you were like 17 or something. Right?
Uh, I turned pro when I was 14. Yeah. And then, but I mean that,
when I say that, it seems it might seem magical,
but at the time skating was this little tiny scene. So when I first,
when I literally went,
pro I filled was filling out an entry form to a competition.
And I had already reached the top of the amateur ranks.
And there was a little box that said pro and a little boxes that am.
So I clicked, I checked the pro box and that was it.
That was pro no one was offering me a contract, no one had champagne.
You know what I mean? And, and like, my coach was, I'll never forget,
Stacy Peralta was looking over my shoulder and I checked it and he's like, okay.
That's it. That was it. Yeah. Wow. But you had a coach, a.
We had it, we had a team manager. Um, he,
he's the one who put me on what is now considered the bones brigade,
but the company was pal Peralta.
And that was sort of the elite crew of skaters in the, in the early eighties.
Um, and I was the super young newbie on the team,
like super skinny dorky kid.
And a lot of the guys that were established were like this guy, really?
What do you, what is that Jamie? Oh, is that you that's.
Me at age 17.
Wow. Time flies
freak you out. Look at it. Then.
I think it's, I mean, I see that photo making the rounds, so, uh, it's cool.
I'm actually, so by the time I turned 17,
I was kind of doing well in competition and, and making money.
So I'm literally sitting of my house that I bought while I was a senior in high
school, in that photo,
which was a challenge, trying to stay focused on schoolwork.
When you have the party house, that's.
Crazy. You own a house.
Yeah. Wow. A duplex. But yeah, it was my own place, but you know,
like when you're a senior, oh,
this so-and-so's parents are out of town parties at his house.
Like my parents were never home, so everyone's going to my house.
But what did your parents think about you buying a house? Was.
My dad's idea really?
Because he saw me really not understanding finances
or, or how lucky I was. And I was just throwing money away, you know,
and cars and trips and sharper image and just the most ridiculous
things. And then he's like, I really think you should invest your money. Did.
You get a massage chair, sharper image, massage chair out of those?
No, but I bought between, okay, this is a long story,
but my sister and I went in on a tanning bed together.
It was like, I used it once she is. Cause she,
it was helpful to her skin. Am I going to say why? But you know,
she had a legitimate reason for it, but I was like, yeah, tanning bed.
Like never going to go tan, but you know, you've got to have it.
Where did you live at the time in, uh, north county, San Diego Carlsbad.
You don't need a tanning bed. Exactly.
Yeah. And that was it. The first time I went, I was like,
why am I laying in that? I can just go to the.
350 Days a year. Yeah, that's.
Hilarious. But, um, I mean, it's it almost, you know,
when you're that age and you're, you're doing well. You think that some other,
some like a status symbol, did.
You sleep in that house by yourself when you were.
17? No. I had three roommates.
Oh God.
That's all crazy. Man. One was a little bit older. He was a good friend of mine,
pro skater. And he was the only guy that actually had a job.
And he was tortured for like two years.
Cause we were up super late all the time making noise and you'd have to get up
at 7:00 AM, go to work. He was doing, he was doing, uh, line stripping, like,
um, back when you'd have to, uh,
color separate for magazines and stuff like that. Um,
bummer for him. Such a bummer. Yeah. And still like,
he's still trying to make it as a pro skater,
but clearly he had to get a job and.
It must be in an exhausted too. He would.
Leave these kind of nasty notes for us in the morning.
So when you in high school look to your senior year in high school,
you had your own place. Did you do any schoolwork at all? I did.
Yeah. Um.
He must've been like, well, this. I can already buy a house.
I don't know. I think it was more because my parents valued education.
My mom was an educator. She was actually like taught in a, um,
college. Oh, wow. So I,
I felt that I was going to be a disappointment if I didn't at least graduate
high school. And I was always pretty advanced,
like I was in the gifted program and you know,
I was a grade ahead and a lot of the subjects. So by the time I was a senior,
I only needed four classes to graduate. Um,
so I went to school until lunchtime every day and then I was out. Oh, wow. Um,
and then I got my diploma and my dad not
strongly suggested I go look at colleges. And so just to humor him,
I went and looking at like a, you know,
a city college in our area and looked around the campus. I was like, oh,
that's cool. I guess. Sure.
And I just knew that it was my opportunity to really chase this and to
embrace all these opportunities I was getting. I mean, I was,
I was literally out of high school,
onto a Hollywood movie set gleaming the cube. Oh, that's right.
So I was out just graduated high school and then moved to north Hollywood
for two months.
I was like, what? 86.
It was, it was shot in 88, I think. 87.
Wow. God, I'm remembering that now. Wow.
What a,
what a crazy way to go from being a young kid to like right
into your manhood. It's.
It's deceiving though. I mean, we,
especially when you have that much success at a young age, you think,
you think it's never going to end. You think you're invincible.
And I definitely sometimes treated as such where I was just like, whew,
you know, just throwing money away. And, and like I said,
my dad was encouraging me to save it.
And then it all came crashing down in about like
19 90, 1 92, where my,
my paycheck was all based on warranties of skate products.
And it started getting cut in half every month. Whoa,
just from lack of interest, lack of sales. Why.
Did it drop it? Was it just the liability.
Thing? It was that, and just skating was considered a fad. And it was just like,
and also my style of skating. I was, I skated the ramps, right?
So I'm a vert skater.
Vert skating was just instantly not cool because street skating had taken over.
So I was considered this dinosaur and it was just like, you're out.
Skating's not cool. And you're not cool in skating. Wow. So, uh, it was,
it was rough. That was like,
I would say sort of 92 to 95 ish where
we're very lean.
So you were trying to figure out like, Hey, what am I doing?
I got really good at this. What are you thinking?
I gotta find something else to do.
Yes and no. I knew I wouldn't quit skating because I just loved it. Like I,
I never did it for the money. You know, when I started, there were no,
no one could be rich or famous from skating. So that was never the objective.
It was just because I loved what it brought to me.
I love the self-confidence abroad to me. I love the creativity. I love the,
the misfit crew, the, the community of it.
And so when things started to go south financially,
I know when quit, I just had to figure out how to make ends meet. And, uh,
I actually had a video editing system and I learned how to do that very early,
like right when nonlinear video started happening, I had a system.
So I started doing freelance work for companies doing video editing,
super random, some skate companies. And then, um,
I did exhibitions. Like we were doing, uh,
exhibitions in a amusement park, parking lots.
We weren't even in the museum park.
We're like in the parking lot as people walk in as entertainment, you know,
and doing that for like a hundred bucks a day. Wow. Um, but it,
but it allowed me to skate and allowed me to pay the rent. And it was like,
that was good enough for me. But were you.
Thinking that this is going to stop? Totally.
Well, it was definitely felt like it was heading that way. Um, but I,
like I said, I was trying to, I was just trying to do whatever I could.
So I was trying to learn different skills. Um, and you know,
maybe skating wasn't going to pay the bills,
but I couldn't let it go from my life.
Wow. That's a great story. It was in there. And you brought it back.
Yeah, I guess. I mean a lot of ways, right.